README.md, before:

# probe-to-liveconf
ffprobe to live conf conversion tool. This tool reads a stream probe and generates a mostly complete live configuration. In some cases the config will be ready as is! Only probes from MPEGTS/UDP and RTMP are supported. HLS will be added later. 

Once a conf is generated some manual edits might be needed such as editing the resolution ladders, enc_height, and enc_width if the source is not coming in at 4k.

### Usage Overview
Pass an ffprobe in json format as file to this tool, a node and its ID to get the configuration required to use with the content fabric for a livestream.
```
❯ node p2l.js -h
Options:
  -h, --help                Show help                                  [boolean]
      --version             Show version number                        [boolean]
  -p, --probeFile           Path to file containing ffprobe data in json format
                                                             [string] [required]
  -n, --nodeUrl             Optional node, example:
                            https://host-76-74-34-195.contentfabric.io  [string]
  -i, --nodeId              Optional node id, example:
                            inod2dPELDTh44bbBDU7rdH7zGTThRKd            [string]
  -c, --calcAvSegDurations  Have the tool automatically calculate and use
                            audio_seg_duration_ts and video_seg_duration_ts
                                                      [boolean] [default: false]
```

### Example
```bash
./p2l.js -p ./tmp/myProbe.json  -n https://host-76-74-91-4.contentfabric.io -i inodgX8bdt2RWqutVQhz9tjzFsUSX2h
{
  "live_recording": {
    "fabric_config": {
      "ingress_node_api": "https://host-76-74-91-4.contentfabric.io",
      "ingress_node_id": "inodgX8bdt2RWqutVQhz9tjzFsUSX2h"
    },
    "playout_config": {
      "rebroadcast_start_time_sec_epoch": 0,
      "vod_enabled": false
    },
    "recording_config": {
      "recording_params": {
        ...
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## How to I probe my stream?
To probe your stream the following requirements needed
- SSH access to the node that will ingest the stream
- ffprobe to be installed on the ingest node  
- Ensure no other resource is already utilizing the rtmp or udp ports and paths.
### UDP example
```bash
ffprobe -v quiet -print_format json -show_format -show_streams udp://INGEST_IP:INGEST_PORT
```

### RTMP example
```bash
ffprobe -v quiet -print_format json -show_format -show_streams rtmp://INGEST_IP:INGEST_PORT/rtmp/RTMP_KEY -listen 1
```

### Limitations on frame rates
Right now there are hardcoded values related to `seg_duration`.

Because of these values, the tool is limited to streams with whole frame rates or frame rates running EXACTLY at `30000/1001` and `60000/1001`

I have not run into any other fractional framerate so I might be covering all our use cases. I will update as needed if we run into anything new.

Commit message:

added updates according to latest live stream specs

README.md, after:

# probe-to-liveconf
ffprobe to live conf conversion tool. This tool reads a stream probe and generates a mostly complete live configuration. In some cases the config will be ready as is! Only probes from MPEGTS/UDP and RTMP are supported. HLS will be added later. 

Once a conf is generated some manual edits might be needed such as editing the resolution ladders, enc_height, and enc_width if the source is not coming in at 4k.

### Usage Overview
Pass an ffprobe in json format as file to this tool, a node and its ID to get the configuration required to use with the content fabric for a livestream.
```
❯ node p2l.js -h
Options:
  -h, --help                   Show help                               [boolean]
      --version                Show version number                     [boolean]
  -p, --probeFile              Path to file containing ffprobe data in json
                               format                        [string] [required]
  -n, --nodeUrl                Optional node, example:
                               https://host-76-74-34-195.contentfabric.io
                                                                        [string]
  -i, --nodeId                 Optional node id, example:
                               inod2dPELDTh44bbBDU7rdH7zGTThRKd         [string]
  -c, --includeAVSegDurations  EXPERIMENTAL = Have the tool provide
                               audio_seg_duration_ts and video_seg_duration_ts
                                                      [boolean] [default: false]
  -d, --overwriteOriginUrl     Manually provide rtmp or udp origin url rather
                               than use the url provided in the probe
                                                        [string] [default: null]
  -l, --ladderStart            Optional, provide where the top bitrate ladder
                               starts, 4k, 1080, 720, 360, custom.
        [string] [choices: "4k", "1080", "720", "360", "custom"] [default: "4k"]
```

### Example
```bash
./p2l.js -p ./tmp/myProbe.json  -n https://host-76-74-91-4.contentfabric.io -i inodgX8bdt2RWqutVQhz9tjzFsUSX2h
{
  "live_recording": {
    "fabric_config": {
      "ingress_node_api": "https://host-76-74-91-4.contentfabric.io",
      "ingress_node_id": "inodgX8bdt2RWqutVQhz9tjzFsUSX2h"
    },
    "playout_config": {
      "rebroadcast_start_time_sec_epoch": 0,
      "vod_enabled": false
    },
    "recording_config": {
      "recording_params": {
        ...
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## How to I probe my stream?
To probe your stream the following requirements needed
- SSH access to the node that will ingest the stream
- ffprobe to be installed on the ingest node  
- Ensure no other resource is already utilizing the rtmp or udp ports and paths.
### UDP example
```bash
ffprobe -v quiet -print_format json -show_format -show_streams udp://INGEST_IP:INGEST_PORT
```

### RTMP example
```bash
ffprobe -v quiet -print_format json -show_format -show_streams -listen 1 rtmp://INGEST_IP:1935/rtmp/RTMP_KEY
```

### Limitations on frame rates
Right now there are hardcoded values related to `seg_duration`.

Because of these values, the tool is limited to streams with whole frame rates or frame rates running EXACTLY at `30000/1001` and `60000/1001`

I have not run into any other fractional framerate so I might be covering all our use cases. I will update as needed if we run into anything new.

### AV Sync issues
If you encounter AV sync issues, you can force the the tool expose the `audio_seg_duration_ts` & `video_seg_duration_ts` values by adding the `-c` argument to your commands. This is experimental and might not work everytime. If you continue running into AV sync issues please reach out to Gerald or Reza. These can be a bit of a pain to nail down sometimes. 

```bash
./p2l.js -p ./tmp/myProbe.json  -n https://host-76-74-91-4.contentfabric.io -i inodgX8bdt2RWqutVQhz9tjzFsUSX2h -c
```

NOTE:

- `audio_seg_duration_ts` is hardcoded to 1428480
- `video_seg_duration_ts` is calculated according to the probe (segDuration * sourceTimescale)
